# DDD(123)

DDD(123) is a library for procedural generation of 2D and 3D geometries and scenes.

DDD purpose is to provide a very expressive API for building and operating with
shapes and models and at the same time closely reflect the hierarchy and metadata
that usually needs to accompany your built 2D or 3D documents.

DDD follows an object graph (or in 3D, a scene graph) approach. Documents and
scenes are composed by nodes that form a **node tree**. You can apply transformations
and do operations with individual nodes or with entire branches.

DDD can export entire scenes or branches easily to several 2D and 3D
formats: SVG, PNG, GLTF/GLB, custom JSON structure.

DDD3 includes an 'object catalog' concept, which allows to reuse and cache objects
speeding up the generation process, and allowing render engines to leverage shared
meshes and geometry instancing.

The library is strongly based and relies on the underlying Shapely and Trimesh
packages which provide most of the geometry operations.

DDD is accompanied by its sibling projects:

- DDD123 Unity Tools: tools for Unity3d that postprocess DDD exported GLB files
  and handles prefab objects, lights, colliders, and materials from DDD metadata.
  (not open source)

- DDD123 OSM Builder: a build pipeline that generates 3D tiles from OpenStreetMap data.

- DDD123 OSM Viewer: an HTML5 3D viewer, based on CesiumJS, for map tiles generated by DDD123 OSM Builder.
  (future, not open source)

- DDD123 Viewer: HTML5 2D and 3D viewer, based on three.js, which interfaces with
  (future)


## Features

- Procedurally generate, alter and align 2D and 3D geometry
- Object catalog ("prefabs") management
- Export 2D to SVG and PNG
- Export 3D to GLTF, FBX or OBJ
- TTF based generation of text geometry
- Handle materials (colors) and normals.
- UV mapping and collider primitives support. Texture atlas support.
- A small procedural models library (trees, urban props...)
- Document generation transformation pipeline support
- OpenStreetMap data based 3D scene builder (TODO: move to separate project [?])
- Examples


## Introduction

(TODO)

Allow easy programatic definition of 1D, 2D and 3D objects.

Workflow oriented to scenegraph, manipulate entire hierarchies.

Solve Anastutia Minigolf minigame needs and possibly others (snake 3D, tanks, boxes / voxels, karts?).

Based on Shapely and Trimesh

(Screenshots)


## Installation

(TODO)

**For Osmium package (reading OSM files)**

sudo apt-get install build-essential cmake libboost-dev libexpat1-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev

**For GDAL installation (accessing GIS datasources) - Ubuntu 18.04**

For 18.04, installed gdal==2.2.3 (matches libgdal version, gdal-config --version):
Exported C and CPLUS_LIBRARY_PATH as per https://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/28966/python-gdal-package-missing-header-file-when-installing-via-pip
export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal/
export C_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal/


## Examples

**Quick generate 3D OSM**

ddd osm-build --center=41.224, 1.725 --radius=2000

## Documentation

TODO: Introduce doc here and move sections to where appropriate.

###

### Metadata

(?)

_*		Used internally? (not exported?)
    _last_extr?		Extrusion info... etc?


osm:*		OpenStreetMap schema metadata
    osm:item:*	Item
    osm:way:*	Way
    osm:area:*	Area
    + layer + area/way raised vs base + base_height (osm, ddd...)

**

    ddd:map:way:width ??

**Properties understood by... (?)**

ddd:*	DDD metadata
    ddd:crop:*			Cropping
    ddd:elevation:*		Elevation applying
    ddd:align:*			Align type
    ddd:area:raising?	?

### OSM data import (preprocessing)

Note: latest versions are doing extraction automatically from country-latest.pbf.

Using PBFs:
  osmconvert spain-latest.osm.pbf -b=-5.870,40.760,-5.470,41.160 -o=salamanca-latest.osm.pbf
  osmconvert spain-latest.osm.pbf -b=-8.980,41.980,-8.480,42.480 -o=vigo-latest.osm.pbf
  osmconvert spain-latest.osm.pbf -b=-8.600,43.170,-8.200,43.570 -o=acoruna-latest.osm.pbf

Then, geojson (TODO: use osmium directly):
  ./osmtogeojson city-latest.osm.pbf > /tmp/city.geojson



### Converting carto icons to texture atlas

Using:

    for a in $(ls *.svg) ; do inkscape -w 64 -h 64 $a --export-filename ../amenity-$a.png ; done

Resize with margin:

    mogrify -path x -resize 120x120 -gravity Center -extent 128x128 *.png

## FAQ

Q: Why the DDD prefix in all objects? isn't this outdated?
A: The decision to name classes with the DDD prefix was to avoid naming conflicts with
   the many similarly named types among ddd dependencies.

Q: Why the pipeline approach is recommended?
A: Pipelines allow to separate tasks, don't require an explicit entry point, allow
   being extended, and can cache intermediate results.


## License




